


a whole world of dark and dreadful things. Godalming is shutting the



All is best as they are.” Dr. Seward seemed to answer them both in a
that it was because I had laid over the clamps of those doors garlic,
however, not to awake his suspicion.





No news from Jonathan, and Lucy seems to be growing weaker, whilst her

THE LOST MR. LINTHWAITE
and give us a fresh start. We had a capital “severe tea” at Robin Hood’s

last; and again that it is your right to destroy him--that--which has
“Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see us a-talkin’ they
born--I was countermining them. And you, their best beloved one, are now
with my will, if it was to do me any good, so I resolutely set myself to
anything like the size of the one we seek. The men were scared every
bodies began to converge close upon us. The wind came now with fiercer

If you can assure me that what you intend does not violate either of
though afterwards he can come as he please. His power ceases, as does
useful to us later.
She moved off into her boudoir, where she usually breakfasted early. As
him. I had written asking him if he had heard, and he said the enclosed
“Did you hit it?” asked Dr. Van Helsing.

The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me.
CHAPTER II

woman, whose soul perhaps is lost--no, no, not yet, but is at any rate

Renfield’s room, the patient began to rate him from within, and called
me, I make sure that nothing here may be of use to him, if so that he
       *       *       *       *       *

I saw again the hand of Nature fighting for life. Van Helsing and I were
the thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar

swept the strange schooner before the blast, with all sail set, and
look so.” I had no answer for this, so was silent. Van Helsing did not
they refresh themselves when his special pabulum is plenty. But he
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
Jonathan with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may ask me

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
peasants or gypsies of some kind.
the nothings of the common dead. There is no malign there, see, and so

state of drouth to which they had been reduced by the dusty nature of
“MINA HARKER.”

“How is your dear mother getting on? I wish I could run up to town for a
of the Dead. I--I cannot go on--words--and--v-voice--f-fail m-me!”
“But why?”
And then Lucy’s breathing became stertorous again, and all at once it
confidence. I am myself a professional man.” Here I handed him my card.
let him loose his wings. Here now, with more knowledge, I go back to
“Is this really Lucy’s body, or only a demon in her shape?”
“As I knew that he wanted to get back to Transylvania, I felt sure that
connected with death, and vampires; with blood, and pain, and trouble.”

fall into my country’s habit of putting your patronymic first--my friend

difficulty by attending to something else. I took the cover off my
       *       *       *       *       *
And so with trust and hope, and yet full of fear, we go eastward to meet
This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S. F. Billington, of
records are such words as ‘stregoica’--witch, ‘ordog,’ and

and on whose mighty hearth a great fire of logs, freshly replenished,
_Dr. Seward’s Diary--continued._
at full tension; his right hand gripped her by the back of the neck,
it is I who would have to go to keep them company.”
“In the morning we shall leave for Varna. We have now to deal with a
him to receive, if possible before sunrise so as to avoid customs, a box
shivering touch of the lips on the super-sensitive skin of my throat,

ungrateful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such a
_Letter, Mrs. Harker to Van Helsing._
marked the place of the flame would not know where to look in daylight
London; where the air is fresh, and the sun rises over Hampstead Hill,
his dreams with horrors of what she must have suffered; and again, he
diary had come to be of some use through Mrs. Harker’s suggestion; at
flitted a great bat, coming and going in great whirling circles. Once or
me, ESCAPE! He saw that with but one earth-box left, and a pack of men
agree to term. Then the thin man go and some one tell him where horse
alive--Madam Mina aiding me. It is cold, cold; so cold that the grey
and that she was his wife in the sight of God. None of us said a word of
Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there to see, when that
towards the far mountain tops. Sweeping the glass all around us I could
“P. S.--My patient being asleep, I open this to let you know something
other way. And I can die, if need be, as well as younger men. Now let

“L.”

“And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will. I
weakest, and without a refuge to fly to. Van Helsing is off to the
for his soul? Oh, hear me! hear me! Let me go! let me go! let me go!”
time. Many times through the night did I come to them, till it arrive to
“I hope,” said Van Helsing, “that when you are sending the child home
dawn is close. We must work to-morrow!”

fixed upon it. By her side lay Lucy, with face white and still more
bending over, she kissed his hand.
I can go with you now, if you like.
seemed to emanate from him, his eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to
till the dying peoples held that in their veins ran the blood of those
had a sort of shock.”
had seen the women take away. There could be no doubt as to his quest,
bagful.’
without a leader? Where ends the war without a brain and heart to
Count in the daylight. Can it be that he sleeps when others wake, that
watched.
almost sure to kill her. Ah, we were wise to keep from her the affair of
he fancied that the box sent aboard might contain something stolen from
seemingly a great gap between it and the steep of the adjacent mountain
however, that I did so he became calm, and said apologetically:--
between then, in Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away and
would not be just as we had expected; we only waited to learn where the
Morris spoke:--
city.

redeemed that great shame of my nation, the shame of Cassova, when the

States without permission and without paying copyright
_Dr. Seward’s Diary._
with arguments regarding his complete recovery, and adduced his own


room. He might kill me, but death now seemed the happier choice of
“Good!” said Van Helsing, “Winchesters it shall be. Quincey’s head is
have brooked. He would have taken or destroyed it. As I look round this
anything, and downfaces everybody. If he can’t out-argue them he bullies
castle stood as before, reared high above a waste of desolation.
in nauseous form, so you need not snub that so charming nose, or I shall
impulse, we all advanced upon him. It was a pity that we had not some

Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare
poor stricken lady. The first watch falls to Quincey, so the rest of us
child-brain in much. Now this criminal of ours is predestinate to crime
not much heed, though I am myself very fond of animals. One of the men
As I looked, the eyes saw the sinking sun, and the look of hate in them

began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-making, laying his very
had I even guess at him--one so precious life had been spared to many of
Helsing pulled back the latch, and, holding the door half open, stood
and opportunity go, we are prepared for the whole of our journey, and
periods back, I should say, to mediæval times, for one part is of stone
slept soundly, for I was not waked by Jonathan coming to bed; but the

amongst us is of himself so strong in person as twenty men; he is of
his sanction, I shall use some.”
think!
“I am satisfied that Lucy’s body is not in that coffin; but that only
to it from the house, but I have taken with my kodak views of it from
It is, I suppose, the reaction from the haunting fear which I have had:
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
here in this spot--I don’t know why, for I was afraid of something--I
bravery and unselfishness. When she saw our faces, her own became as
_30 July_.--Last night. Rejoiced we are nearing England. Weather fine,
We ran over and saw him spring unhurt from the ground. He, rushing up
good, unselfish cause to make me work--that would be indeed happiness.
is an added joy to Mina and to me that our boy’s birthday is the same
snow-gloom. I was desolate and afraid, and full of woe and terror; but
is of gold, and so beautifully wrought that it must be of immense value.
“Excuse me,” I said, “but the answer is here.” I laid my hand on the

that maybe Sam Bloxam could tell ye summut.” I asked if he could tell me
CHAPTER XV. Dr. Seward’s Diary
_24 July_.--There seems some doom over this ship. Already a hand short,
and warm, and the red light streamed in through the window and gave more
face became relaxed a thought; there was hope in such good counsel. Van
full of respect for you, and you have given me hope--hope, not in what I
shock to her would mean sudden death, and this, in Lucy’s weak
which mere “modernity” cannot kill.
must go back to Amsterdam to-night,” he said. “There are books and
you. Do you not think that there are things which you cannot understand,
threaten her husband, and red at others when his devotion to her was
“And your baggage?”
this cause; but, of course, you do not know me--yet; and I must not
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this


other things, she clutched the wreath of flowers that Dr. Van Helsing

that several were taken in any of these removals we may be able to trace
                              _Publishers_

Outside the air was sweet, the sun shone, and the birds sang, and it
gather that he is bearing up wonderfully well. Quincey Morris is with
looked down on all the weaknesses and wants of us poor mortals. I
for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same. This startled me, but
all devoted to this cause, and to-day shall see the end. The time is
Buda-Pesth, to Miss Wilhelmina Murray._
a shock was it?”

making use of the zoöphagous patient to effect his entry into friend
it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! look!” he
seem to have harmed her; on the contrary, it has benefited her, for she
much to do here, and I keep waiting till the sun is up high; for there
ripened--while the milk of its mother-earth is in him, and the sunshine
         PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWER.
operate, and you must only help. I would like to do it to-night, but for
mistake about this, for in the long hours that followed, she had many
of horrible fancies began to crowd in upon my mind--all of them
continued slowly to open, and only the Count’s body stood in the gap.
once, so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse of the awful depth would
“_3 September._


complications, later on, in the Admiralty Court; for coastguards cannot
the lately glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster.
movement. Then will come our time. I have thought and thought, and it
not get my telegram?”
small. I counsel you, put down in record even your doubts and surmises.
     safe to probe him too deep with questions. He might begin to think,
fail--the father or furtherer of a new order of beings, whose road must

called Lucy’s attention to the peculiar effect, and she became herself
“May it not frighten her terribly? It is unusual to break into a lady’s
“By making them happen; just as he used to send in the flies when the
he says that so long as they do not begin to sharpen there is no active
so cannot leave the ship. As he dare not change to man’s form without
tradition; but no one could add to the simple description “Fifty cases
setting. The attendant was struck by his manner, and knowing my interest
_1 October._--I am puzzled afresh about Renfield. His moods change so
an earthy smell, as of some dry miasma, which came through the fouler
tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves,
clusters in a nebulous sort of way. I watched them with a sense of
I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his
in. I heard him say:--
The Professor watched me critically. “That will do,” he said. “Already?”
grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset
if in thought, but he said nothing.
here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have
made assurance of Lucy’s coffin. Another search in his bag, and he took
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
is this very obliquity of thought and memory which makes mental disease
“Did you write all this, Mrs. Harker?”
had disease of the heart, and we can certify that she died of it. Let us
forgetting her own grief, she seized hold of him and cried out:--

little while. In meantime we may rest and in peace, for there are waters
the rooms, that the windows of the Count’s own room would look out. The
you will.” His voice broke a little, and he went on with a voice full of
     want--some, possibly, that you have _always_ wanted.
almost pooh-poohed the idea, pointing out her daughter’s renewed
small deer,’ as Shakespeare has it, ‘chicken-feed of the larder’ they
hand. I could not speak; my emotion was too great for even the relief of
forced them upon me. But I could not eat; to even try to do so was
I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair of Mina’s


I do not know how I am writing this even to you. I am afraid to stop,
doubtless in winter and when the snow melts--the horsemen may not have
veins, her body did not respond to the treatment as well as on the other
remembered what Jonathan put in his diary of the Professor’s
within a certain time. And your police and other authority help him all
was still asleep, but told him as gently as I could that both Van
jesting. This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.’ I asked
have any effect on him. I dared not wait to see him return, for I feared
dusty old ’ouse, too, though nothin’ to the dustiness of the ’ouse we
the piers, leaping from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed,
_Ask for Complete free list of G. & D. Popular Copyrighted Fiction_
reply to show that she understood. The last I saw, she was waving her
He cannot go where he lists; he who is not of nature has yet to obey
“Then you are on a ship?” We all looked at each other, trying to glean
it make hard that I must kill her in her sleep.” This turned my blood
And to-night I shall not fear to sleep, since he is close at hand and
the demons of the pit. His eyes were positively blazing. The red light
evening drew on, and the earth took its shadows from the sun sinking
“An’ when you said you’d report me for usin’ of obscene language that
Slovaks, and a chance thrust--for I don’t suppose these fellows carry
came as near to being happy myself as I suppose I shall ever be. As the
tall, thin man, all in black. I knew him at once from the description of
He bent over and again forced back the leaden flange; and then a shock

tops, with occasionally a deep rift where there is a chasm. Here and
and moustache were changed to dark iron-grey; the cheeks were fuller,
bending over, she kissed his hand.
The delay of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied that things
of attire. Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I

experienced hand at the work, as he has had for years a launch of his
from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort to move on without


disturb the poor lady’s mind about her daughter in her present state of
locked it. He handed me the key, saying: “Will you keep it? You had

    
_8 September._--I sat up all night with Lucy. The opiate worked itself
week, that is when I once got into it at night. Arthur says I am getting
saw her, and certainly looked better. She had lost something of the
sake of those dear to me!
towards those whom they love, in such times of sore trial! And oh, my
think he remembered me at the moment. Just then the whistle blew, and

sufferer, forbids absolutely any travelling on my part for some time to

till finally she opened her eyes and awoke. She did not seem surprised

stopped to look at the view, as we generally do. The setting sun, low
Russian, he Roumanian.
say you?”

left without warmth in the cold and the snow. We had to take some of our

“Professor, are you in earnest; or it is some monstrous joke? Pardon me,


       *       *       *       *       *
I had forbidden it? Back, I tell you all! This man belongs to me! Beware
door, he entered, and at once began to speak:--
be so successful, then the sunset of this evening may shine on Madam
senses, and ran screaming from the place. The phantom shapes, which were

that the Count had remained on board the ship. He replied: “We have the
lose any time in examining the chests. With the tools which we had
carefully, and saw the whole man emerge. It was a new shock to me to
comfort is that we are in the hands of God. Only for that faith it would
helps him to have a belief in himself. But it is here that the grave
hypnotic answer is unvaried: lapping waves, rushing water, and creaking
she live on, Un-Dead, more and more they lose their blood and by her
stick as he spoke--“a pack of lies? and won’t it make Gabriel keckle
could not believe that she was dead. The lips were red, nay redder than



night; there is plenty of water, and the banks are wide enough apart to
I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking three of the
files of “The Westminster Gazette” and “The Pall Mall Gazette,” and took

interest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions. Dress is a
       *       *       *       *       *
father, had the same habit; that he would get up in the night and dress
as he dried his eyes, “but I do not know even yet--and none other can
must have one hour that will make the very face of heaven grow black to
down. Then we can have long talks when we do meet. I wonder when it will

when we had lit our cigars he said--
of watching; and when I sudden remember that I watch, I find her lying
from the fact that the hinges had fallen somewhat, and the heavy door
we not promise to go on to the bitter end?”
seeming full of a silent mystery of their own. Not a thing seemed to be
The clock has just struck nine. I see the lights scattered all over the
stake. Not being able to smoke, he cut himself a good-sized plug of
sparkling waters which please the young and gay. I am no longer young;
was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her
“May it not frighten her terribly? It is unusual to break into a lady’s
and before the sunset this shall be so. Then he have no place where he
Contents
could not contain myself at the thought that the minutes and seconds so
Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn from her face.
compared with which Burdon-Sanderson’s physiology or Ferrier’s
then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road. It
and tower in front. We both seem in good spirits; I think we make an
here to stay if need be. All affairs are settled with me, and I have
and terrible case; we can only do as we deem best. What else have we to
hypnotic report this morning was the same as usual, so it is possible
_27 July._--No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite uneasy about him,
blood; but he could do nothing. The water rose and rose; and he began to
“No,” I replied; “but Mina wants to see Dr. Van Helsing at once.”


freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
“MINA HARKER.”
them back; it was the same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the
of an American who so defined faith: ‘that faculty which enables us to
any rate it would take away the pain of doubt. I told him, and the
terrible conditions. He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down
when he comes. I have sent a telegram to Jonathan to come on here when
_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._
poor dear should have fallen in love with any other girl. The idea of
breath more stertorous. Van Helsing stood up instinctively.
long time it did not act. I seemed to become more wakeful, and myriads
_27 October, Noon._--Most strange; no news yet of the ship we wait for.

mother by five minutes, her property would, in case there were no
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
even loves me.’ I was right to speak to him so frankly, for quite a
power exists to us as can sterilise his lairs, so that he cannot use
was the main object of my search, I must make further examination, or
THE ANNEXATION SOCIETY
over the table. Friend John, help to me!” So neither of us looked whilst
qualities of brutes are in some men, and not in others? Can you tell me
     accord, spoke of going home, a subject he has never mentioned to my
an’ shut it again when I druv off. I don’t remember the last time--but
stone falling from the window would fall a thousand feet without
weary, and I need rest, rest, rest. Happily Van Helsing has not summoned
us for all he’s worth, but God sends us men when we want them.”

So be it that he has gone elsewhere. Good! It has given us opportunity
There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience until the dawn;
he held his honourable watch and ward till death--a steadfastness as
“My poor little feet didn’t make much noise then! I daresay poor old Mr.

knew nothing of his friends, and there was on him nothing that any one
of fog at all, except where it lay round the wharf. However, the ship
that to wake would be to find things changed, and that any change must
monster may be carried to him in some subtle way. If we could only get
me. Some way it affected me much; I am crying when I think of him. This
the way that waking thoughts become merged in, or continued in, dreams.
_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

“Can’t we get a special?” asked Lord Godalming. Van Helsing shook his
stretching out into the sea, with a curve outwards at the end of it, in
will not let two friends. We shall tell him nothing, but only that we

sunshine; an arrow in the side of Him who died for man. But we are face
think I put them into his--and said in a hearty way:--
conduct it? Again, when, after the battle of Mohács, we threw off the
The young curate came in, however, and Mrs. Westenra asked him to stay
repress a shudder. It may have been that his breath was rank, but a
                            _Extra Special._

side and to frown down upon us; we were entering on the Borgo Pass. One
disappearing behind the angle of the house, so I ran after him. On the

Helsing will not blame me; I have had so much trouble and anxiety of
had he seen that little group of loving and devoted friends kneeling
needed any reminding, of _that_ night, and that it was here, on this
hours and hours. At the first, I tell Madam Mina to sleep; she try, and
had got up. They were all so frightened and nervous that I directed them
“To open the coffin. You shall yet be convinced.” Straightway he began
that I know of. At the same time, I am not by any means satisfied with
have lost to leave such a pallor as she had before the transfusion.
the tomb.
his stalwart proportions and recognised the strong young manhood which
not quite hear or understand. We must be ready at all points.” Dr.
long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle, the wolves
“Believe me, dear Sir,
when he came beside the wheel, bent over to examine it, and recoiled at
the dust, composed myself for sleep. I suppose I must have fallen
dust. In the moonlight opposite me were three young women, ladies by
knowledge of.
jump from the calèche and run, whilst they reared again and plunged

weather influences as we know that the Count can bring to bear; and if
landed, I will take Madam Mina right into the heart of the enemy’s
superstition--are everything. Does not the belief in vampires rest for
“It is not too late. It beats, though but feebly. All our work is
that our hearts were strengthened to work and endure for her, and we
been used as a graveyard. The roof was broken, and in two places were
poignant regret on his face. The Professor went on:--
matter how willingly it be given, is a terrible feeling--Van Helsing
Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my
your London, or of any city in the world; and if you do it as such

pointed to a stone at our feet which had been laid down as a slab, on
all wrong?”
wonderfully interesting study. I wish I could get some glimpse of his
save superstition, and they talk only their own varieties of the Romany
voice. At the same time there was despair in his eyes, for the risen sun
and with myself for coming. I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly
that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance or any malady
_Dr. Van Helsing’s Memorandum._
for his soul? Oh, hear me! hear me! Let me go! let me go! let me go!”

The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the old man’s hand
(_Kept in shorthand._)
line. I, who have read your so sweet letter to poor Lucy of your
such a fascinating study. Perhaps I may gain more knowledge out of the
Madam Mina, and my heart with gladness leapt like flame; for oh! the

_18 September._--I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early.
unknowingly I did break the seal. Will you not cover it again?” He held
escaped their suspicions. We are travelling fast, and as we have no

though afterwards he can come as he please. His power ceases, as does

seemed to emanate from him, his eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to
This was all practical, so one of the children went off with a penny to

very tone betray him, or my ears deceive. Why take that money? You
remark, that the murder was the work of a Slovak, showed the general
ain purpose. An’ a’ the time we could no speer a thing. Gin we were nigh
appear on one night; and on that night no man of this land will, if he
hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where he remained,
“Just so. Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins had
“And you are Mrs. Harker!” I answered at once; whereupon she held out
“Then it were, I think good that I tell you something of the kind of
“And yet she has been dead one week. Most peoples in that time would not
through the wide entrance into the courtyard.

him. He had found a wonderful spot, a sort of natural hollow in a rock,
of that personal dominance which made him so long a master amongst

his hand, and looking at him through her tears, said hoarsely:--
sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His pets are of odd
had to keep on neutral subjects. However, I thought the matter over, and
possibly get in till well after sun-up. Thus we shall have two more
THE ANNEXATION SOCIETY
pressing on relentlessly to some destined end. Everything that one does
strewments.” I never liked garlic before, but to-night it is delightful!
that some day may lie on my bosom, and I stroked his hair as though he

throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing’s conclusions. Quincey


He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately seated on his bed
under a sort of protest. I woke with the dawn, and heard the birds
“And what is that, friend John?”
“I don’t take any stock at all in such matters. ‘Rats and mice and such

could see how much Arthur was weakened. I dressed the wound and took his
trituration. It at once occurred to me that this wound, or whatever it
We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as on
deal to the left. He vanished into some hole or window. When his head
would come out calmer--for I heard him knocking away at something in the
was concentrated on the Professor. Taking from his box a piece of the

evidence against us, in case any suspicion of murder were aroused. But
much beloved. That is much, my dear, ever were there that which I do not
swept the strange schooner before the blast, with all sail set, and
saw her, and certainly looked better. She had lost something of the
“But,” I said, “surely you are not quite correct, for you start on the
beset! How are all the powers of the devils against us!” Suddenly he
home to them. Is it not so?” As he spoke he handed me three sheets of
altogether--though he think not so. Hush! let me speak, and you shall
away together to the station, and Van Helsing and I came on here. The
bidden. Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it upon
but you are too prejudiced. You do not let your eyes see nor your ears
by to-night’s post to Ring. Wire me if necessary.”
seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground

her that my old master, Van Helsing, the great specialist, was coming to
dipping into his bag and producing the instruments for transfusion; I
‘Here I am! here I am!’ till the blood come dance back and bring some of
and beat about till the fog was lifted; but whiles, I thocht that if the
I trust that good habit have not fail. Remember, my friend, that
about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the same time some
Some of the “New Women” writers will some day start an idea that men and
sherry and kawffee, so to speak, afore I tries on with the
the thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar
sadness, for I was thinking of Jonathan. When coming home--it was then
yet! Hold her hand; it will comfort her more.”
Crescent, and there was not a soul in sight. I ran along the North
own room to get the papers from my bag. Whilst I was placing them in
Then the dogs howled, away beyond the dark trees in His house. He
then it will be in your voice in my memory for ever--come what may!”
Jonathan’s. It is the copy of his journal when abroad, and all that
no response, none at all; and the day broke. I fear yet to stir. I have
meantime!--the thought is too horrible, I dare not think of it even now.
’isself. He didn’t git angry, as I ’oped he would, but he smiled a kind

       *       *       *       *       *
that I was looking at a corpse.

facility: www.gutenberg.org.

must not let your sight pass from her.”
_8 May._--I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I was getting too
days and nights past--weary days and sleepless nights--he had been
expressed it. Poor fellows, neither of them is aware that I know all
the flesh were the coils of Medusa’s snakes, and the lovely,
_4 November._--To-day we heard of the launch having been detained by an
who had up to an hour ago repudiated the proofs, felt my heart sink
bring him upstairs. I did so, and left him at the door of the room, as I
brooding. When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me and
shelving cliffs; others broke over the piers, and with their spume swept
1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
_Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam._
simple. She have yet no life taken, though that is of time; and to act
to speak was the Professor, as, realising the difficulty of following
added:--
it--I looked about for something to read, for I did not like to go about
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
of fiends. Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively,
_Letter (by hand), Van Helsing to Mrs. Harker._
_accurately_, so I had better commence to do so, therefore--
to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious. I have no


of her youth and animation, with the red scar on her forehead, of which
There were only twenty-nine left out of the fifty! Once I got a fright,
fail--the father or furtherer of a new order of beings, whose road must
began to fear that the fatal spell of the place was upon her, tainted as
After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep, fresh and bright and
not. I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed--I imagine that
When the wire was despatched he had a cup of tea; over it he told me of
an’ all anent them is only fit to set bairns an’ dizzy women
afterwards he never will have such a thought. There I wrong him; I

breathing softly. She has more colour in her cheeks than usual, and
flamed and flared.
_2 November._--Three days on the road. No news, and no time to write it
alive--Madam Mina aiding me. It is cold, cold; so cold that the grey
“Take me with you, friend John,” said the Professor. “His case in your
as yet; for what we wish for at the moment may be our undoings.”
This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S. F. Billington, of
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

explore more than I had dared to do as yet. I went back to the room, and
awake, so I thought I would press him hard. “I wonder,” I said
The door is shut, and the chains rattle; there is a grinding of the key
She seemed, however, to know the situation without telling, though she
dinner he said to Mrs. Harker:--
of this kind for a long time to come; the traces of such an illness as
brought me to his father’s house, where they had decided that I must
“I will go,” he said, and hurried into the Professor’s room.
_Telegram, Mrs. Harker to Van Helsing._
flows away in a fair-sized stream. The house is very large and of all
endured the horrid screeching as the stake drove home; the plunging of
pleased with her, I am sure.”
There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience until the dawn;
make it in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pond or

We all looked at Arthur. He saw, too, what we all did, the infinite
man who took them pressed them to his heart and bowed, and then put them
seemed, however, to hasten with redoubled speed as the sun dropped lower
for now, feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock
at the first appear much, when the matter is one of life and death--nay
him. I thought I had best meet him on his own ground, so I said:--
that she was sleeping so soundly that he could not wake her, we went to
the other houses. When we had examined this last find, Lord Godalming
week, that is when I once got into it at night. Arthur says I am getting
We have seen it with our eyes.
by the window, as before at Miss Lucy’s.”
first to climb on board. The men working the searchlight, after scouring
added:--
children in the town shivering in their shoes, was there in a sort of
before us to rid the earth of this terrible monster we must have all
jackals when I want to feed. Bah!” With a contemptuous sneer, he passed
brought by the Slovaks. There was nobody about, and I made search for
everything left in my charge.... With regard to patient, Renfield, there
What could I do but bow acceptance? It was Mr. Hawkins’s interest, not


“Send the attendant away. We must be alone with him when he becomes
I turned to wake Jonathan, but found that he slept so soundly that it
Crescent was in shadow, everything could be well seen--I threw a glance
was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her


his exclamation of horror, “Gott in Himmel!” needed no enforcement from
in nauseous form, so you need not snub that so charming nose, or I shall
hall with one impulse, and Van Helsing, holding up his hand to us to
must open that parcel, and know what is written. Oh, Jonathan, you will,
churchyard, where rest so many of her kin, laid there with the mother

more strong for my ‘spell’ which I have work. Ho! ho!”

had escaped. I threw on my clothes and ran down at once; my patient is
happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure. He seemed quite
the rest, and I shall answer any questions you ask--if there be anything
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
and your idiotic brain theories somewhere else. Damn all thick-headed
no more think that I am all sorry when I cry, for the laugh he come
power to the utmost:--
them out of trouble with a handspike. I let him take the helm, while the
“I could not see him anywhere in the passage, or in any of our rooms. I
less and less with each day, and to-night it fail me altogether. Well,
you just hitch up alongside of me and let us go down the long road
usual. I hope the meeting to-night has not upset her. I am truly
to their gals. I don’t so much mind the fust--the ’ittin’ with a pole
“And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will. I
_16 October._--Mina’s report still the same: lapping waves and rushing
he was examining. We all followed his movements with our eyes, for

me. It was my privilege to be your friend and guide when you came from
“My friend, it was because I wished to be gentle in the breaking to you,
massive stone. I could see even in the dim light that the stone was
amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing
but in the mornin’, braw an’ airly, an hour before sun-up, a man came
egoist--and that, let me tell you, is much in this age, so sceptical and
faith. But God is merciful and just, and knows your pain and your
hard, and cruel, and sensual, and his big white teeth, that looked all
gesture, placed us each in position. Van Helsing, Harker, and I were
it were only a single line. Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I

be a blessed hand for her that shall strike the blow that sets her free.
to give him a chance of reaching the trap. How he came there, I know
was a dead calm, a sultry heat, and that prevailing intensity which, on
episode of which I know one side already....
answering, for I felt that I must not betray anything which the

START: FULL LICENSE
As he spoke he took from his pocket-book the memorandum which had been
over to the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar; then he took his
“Your faithful and grateful friend,
not be from that unlucky prick of the safety-pin. I looked at her throat
veins, could not live even one day? For, had she live one more day, we
be held over at Bistritz until due time in case chance would admit of my
believe in it. Even my own terrible experiences in Castle Dracula seem
which would arrive at Galatz in the _Czarina Catherine_. This he was to

them to my room. I remember how much “The Dailygraph” and “The Whitby

The wind fell away entirely during the evening, and at midnight there
my eyes, but could still see through my eyelids. (It is wonderful what
CHAPTER XXIV. Dr. Seward’s Phonograph Diary, spoken by Van Helsing
and rested silent, for Van Helsing had a way of going on his own road,
simple seriousness. He thought for a moment, and then said: “May I have
were it was possible to see a great distance; and far off, beyond the
lost--by your hope that lives--for the sake of the Almighty, take me out
ceased.
saw her, and certainly looked better. She had lost something of the
series of events which seem to run on lines parallel to those of what
(Entered in her Journal.)

that last earth-box was ready to ship somewheres. For this he took the
He is immensely strong, for he was more like a wild beast than a man. I
could not believe that she was dead. The lips were red, nay redder than
a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war
As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves without grew louder
not leave the helm. I saw him come out on deck again with a tool-chest

shouldn’t be surprised if the census is one babby the less. That’s
full of respect for you, and you have given me hope--hope, not in what I
monster has been creeping into knowledge experimentally. How he has been
they had found Renfield lying on the floor, all in a heap. His face was
are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of after
strong, though not nearly so much so as the day before. When Van Helsing
were rooms for us all nice and comfortable, and we dined together. After
scythe. Ye see, I can’t get out o’ the habit of caffin’ about it all at
now and weep, as I think of them placid each in her full sleep of death

callous, and the heart of him is not; he can, within limitations, appear
moved as though there were some living thing within it. For answer he
fact--that there have been toads shut up in rocks for thousands of
dropped down on the other side. I could see Renfield’s figure just

_Same day, 11 o’clock p. m._--Oh, but I am tired! If it were not that I
kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her lovingly and
fashion. Then he stood up, looked into the keyhole, blew into it, and
really tired, and we intended to creep off to bed as soon as we could.
heart. I stood still and silent till his sobs died away, and then I said

passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as
commanded me to do I know not what--have all ceased. I go to bed now
were as though she were interpreting something. I have heard her use the
“Because my dear, dear Madam Mina, now more than ever must we find him
Of course it may not be either the Sereth or the Pruth, but we may


had fallen sadly into arrear. Suddenly the door was burst open, and in
to let me stand forth in His sight as one of those who have not incurred
rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure, and
an inmate. But these are not his most important experiments. Do we not

There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were fifty in all, on a

them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range,



“Welcome to my house. Come freely. Go safely; and leave something of the

asked him what it was that he was doing. Arthur and Quincey drew near
away from the river with their leiter-wagon. They surrounded it in a
lie till we discharged in the port an’ get rid o’t althegither. We
that I was looking at a corpse.
him to the point of his madness--a thing which I avoid with the patients
answering, for I felt that I must not betray anything which the
which mere “modernity” cannot kill.
sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know not. I dared not go
river mouth. She was by then, when they told us, well out to sea.
own place he looked queer. I have not seen anything pulled down so quick
light came into his face, and he put out both his hands and took mine--I


“LUCY.
and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of something


entering first himself. The rest of us followed, and he closed the door.
you so simple a thing? Was it because I hate you and have hated you all
o’clock. That he went south has a meaning for us. He is as yet only
“If I could spare you one pang, my poor friend,” he said, “God knows I


the trees spangled with the fallen petals. In and out amongst these
happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure. He seemed quite
quivered with intent. Van Helsing slapped him on the shoulder. “Come!”
have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child.
Renfield. Do let me see him. What you have said of him in your diary
trust to me in the matter, he said: ‘You must tell him all you think.
sleep-walking on the cliff at Whitby when Mina saved me, and which now I
he go far, far away from me, and for a long, long time--maybe you would
thing, one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is
“Friend Jonathan, this is to you for twice reasons. First, because you
were no corners, no doors, no aperture of any kind, but only the solid
shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow in case they
little shoes, but I guess if you wait till you find a man that is you
tooked the bloomin’ boxes from.”
and the destroying shall be, in time, sure.” Here I started up for I
When I was leaving the room, last of our party, he said to me in a
to arrange as best he could.
a system or method of its own. The police of the division have been
       *       *       *       *       *
destroy him; but I fear that no weapon wrought alone by man’s hand would
window she shook her head and turned away. I trust her feeling ill may
“Then it was you, and just arrived. How is she? Are we too late? Did you
fear that he would lose the tide altogether. He was in no friendly mood,
Last night I went to bed when the men had gone, simply because they told
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
they had been at Lucy’s death--her real death--and that I need not fear
for we did not leave the room in darkness; she had placed a warning hand
had been restless all the morning, so that we were at first glad to know
“Were the boxes left in the hall?”
resolution was fixed; she said that it was the last hope for _her_ that
Cliff. The town seemed as dead, for not a soul did I see; I rejoiced
truth in anything holy or emotional, would have been melted to the heart
was, might be the means of that manifest loss of blood; but I abandoned
can you--account for it not being there?”
Park. My heart beat as I saw the house on which so much of our hope was
at the thought of the pain which he might have to inflict upon the poor
with intense gravity:--
best proof of that: your own evidence, when in the hypnotic trance this
may solve only in part. Believe me, we are now on the verge of one. But
road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.


what he meant by that, for he was very serious. This was when we had
watching all the time frequently, visit and see that flowers are as
the tears in his voice. Mr. Morris, with instinctive delicacy, just laid
which she answered:--

ever, and this new trouble makes every hour of the direst importance. I
might let the servants know I had finished; but I could not find one.
“‘No,’ says he, ‘not exactly in the business, but I ’ave made pets of
life, and sleep well. You will be glad to know that I have quite given
it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! look!” he
made her truly his bride?”
time--I must not disguise from myself the possibility that such may
other than business in your letters. It will doubtless please your
me if I trusted him fully with the facts. So far as I can see, my only

Smollet at home and in his shirtsleeves, taking a late tea out of a
deadly fear. I felt in my heart a wicked, burning desire that they would
read:--
of common earth.” I then saw the station-master, who kindly put me in
GROSSET & DUNLAP, _Publishers_, NEW YORK
what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood. As
“I don’t quite see the drift of it; but you people are all so good and

vitality of its own. I think that the digression of my thoughts must
“All right, guv’nor. This ’ere is about the ’ole story. That ’ere wolf
animals, though, indeed, he has such curious turns in it that I
safe. But if you be not careful in this respect, then”--He finished his
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
did not know what to say more. Van Helsing put out his hand and took the
night we all assembled a little before the time of sunset. Each of us

“Go to Dr. Van Helsing, and ask him to kindly come here at once. I want
“He is young and strong; there are kisses for us all.” I lay quiet,


scheme of villainy....
As she replied, she raised her finger and pointed to her forehead:--
may have stolen it.” I felt that I was speaking folly, and yet it was
workman come out and bring in his bag. Then he held the door partly
corner, and that we are over her troubles with dreaming. I should be
shall be ready.
have my hands free that I might help her, I fastened the shawl at her
girls that you all love are mine already; and through them you and
of seeing it. The castle is on the very edge of a terrible precipice. A
clerk! Mina would not like that. Solicitor--for just before leaving
_12 May._--Let me begin with facts--bare, meagre facts, verified by

_30 June, morning._--These may be the last words I ever write in this

that it must not. Thus are we ministers of God’s own wish: that the
_20 September._--Only resolution and habit can let me make an entry
of morphia.” He proceeded then, swiftly and deftly, to carry out his
dare not go out, for I can hear the low howl of the wolf through the
“_17 September._--Do not fail to be at Hillingham to-night. If not
waiting for him:--
_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._
against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to understand, and went on to
black moustache and pointed beard, who was also observing the pretty
here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have
five days I joost let the wind carry us; for if the Deil wanted to get
“Look here, sir,” I said, “does what you have to do concern the Count?”
write. Some sort of shadowy pall seems to be coming over our happiness.
_26 October._--Another day and no tidings of the _Czarina Catherine_.
_27 July._--No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite uneasy about him,
the sound, and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able
Cliff, known locally as Tate Hill Pier.
gums drawn back from the teeth, which thus looked positively longer and
at the abbey he said very brusquely:--
night when sleep is not: ‘It was my hand that sent her to the stars; it
did see it. When I had written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a
that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor’s, a
owned the whole place, and I was no one. He didn’t even smell the same
“Indeed,” I said, “you speak excellently.”
shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow in case they
knew I was coming to Jonathan, and, that as I should have to do some

“And you are right. There will be pain for us all; but it will not be
streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
attention. I shall stay with you myself; but I shall first dress myself.
that maybe Sam Bloxam could tell ye summut.” I asked if he could tell me
“Were the boxes left in the hall?”
_4 August._--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce. I know there is
“Man!” he said, “but it made us afeard, for we expeckit that we should
in all than him, can at certain times hold him; but they cannot hurt him

“I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker, who is himself not strong
has been saying was, under the circumstances, of absorbing interest. So
digital pressure to my own incision. I laid down, whilst I waited his
and in through the door, before the very eyes of the police. Then he
pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the distance, where

agonising experience. I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary....
“Take care,” he said, “take care how you cut yourself. It is more

a study of insanity. You, no, Madam Mina; for crime touch you not--not
senses, and ran screaming from the place. The phantom shapes, which were
has happened. I rest on the sofa, so as not to disturb her.
“I desire it much; nay, I will take no refusal. When your master,

brought back to reality. Even now, when I am gravely revolving the
To my surprise, Van Helsing rose up and said with all his sternness, his
least. Some girls are so vain! You and I, Mina dear, who are engaged and
teeth, in the dim, uncertain light, seemed longer and sharper than they
over her would die away equally with her power of knowledge it would be
when I got to it found no one there. The wind was steady, and as we ran
mountain fastnesses, rising peak on peak, the sheer rock studded with
immediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax, in case our friend
“ART.”
love her. Oh, Madam Mina, by that love, I implore you, help me. It is

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

“Let us go back to Madam Mina--poor, poor dear Madam Mina. All we can do
the bat--the moth, and the fox, and the wolf; he can grow and become
receptivity of my mind with regard to some strange matter. Do I read
had seen the women take away. There could be no doubt as to his quest,
Bistritz--the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye.
“His red eyes again! They are just the same.” It was such an odd


He took it and his eyes glistened. “You are so good,” he said. “And may
down again, and the tears rained down his cheeks. I felt an infinite
a certain pair of eyes. Come!
fascinating. It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country. He
“I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young. My God, if this be
topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the narrow mouth
described, and was satisfied that this was the next of the lairs
from me in some strange way, and I feel freer than I have been of late!”
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
Her husband flung himself on his knees beside her, and putting his arms
will be surprise if he go quite so soon. The captain swear again,
me, better than my friend John.” Arthur looked bewildered, and the
voice was breaking, and I do not know if rage or terror predominated in
making a wide gap whence a bundle of bank-notes and a stream of gold


roadway till we passed as through a tunnel; and again great frowning

against a corner of the gateway. When she saw my face at the window she
with a flying blush, and changed her phrase--“to him who had best right
CHAPTER XXI. Dr. Seward’s Diary
“‘That’s my brave girl. It’s better worth being late for a chance of
“Just so. Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins had
     have a strait-waistcoat ready in case of need.

’im; for Sam gets off main early, never mind the booze the night afore.”
“I suppose so.” He stood up and said solemnly:--
DR. SEWARD’S DIARY
it was no wonder that my friends were alarmed, and insisted on my being
denied to the vampire kind; we have sources of science; we are free to
jealous of, some interference. When he had got through his disgusting
had been restless all the morning, so that we were at first glad to know
and say she would never tell; that the ravings of the sick were the

blow was a powerful one; only the diabolical quickness of the Count’s
that he wished that he and his box--old and with much bloom and
hell with you and your souls!” he shouted. “Why do you plague me about
responsibility of his new position. I knew he would be true to himself,

“Then it was you, and just arrived. How is she? Are we too late? Did you
we’d keep a sharp lookout anyhow. Sure eneuch, we had a fair way and
Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard. Oh, I do hope he is not ill. He

dawn is close. We must work to-morrow!”
“The advice is good!” said Van Helsing, so we said no more. Godalming

together with the rent due, in English money. This had been between ten
want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy’s papers and
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
ironbound oak door of the chapel. He was talking, apparently to some
fashion. Then he stood up, looked into the keyhole, blew into it, and
_Mina Harker’s Journal._
devil-begotten Hun, the Slav, the Saxon, the Magyar. So far, then, we
“_3 September._

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
With sad hearts we came back to my house, where we found Mrs. Harker
him. Then he deliberately set himself down to prepare for the task. He
       *       *       *       *       *
_29 June._--To-day is the date of my last letter, and the Count has

“You were with me here yesterday. Was the body of Miss Lucy in that


the Count on his return from his tour. Godalming told the shippers that

self-feeling the difference between myself and attendant seemed to him
drifting inland--white, wet clouds, which swept by in ghostly fashion,
when we had supped she told me of Van Helsing’s visit, and of her having
have carried me here. I tried to satisfy myself on the subject, but
vent at once. He grew quite hysterical, and raising his open hands, beat

It is now close to the time of our general gathering. Van Helsing has
less and less with each day, and to-night it fail me altogether. Well,
it!”
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

be your friend, and will you come to me for comfort if you need it? You
for what? She is dead; so! Is it not?”
He went to the door and opened it; a most unnecessary proceeding it
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
_29 September._--I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of Jonathan

Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for, that I may not

_Letter from Dr. Seward to Arthur Holmwood._
faith is tested--that we must keep on trusting; and that God will aid us
Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see
fear and horror on his face that the men said made them shudder. Poor
Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man who accepts all things, and
kept from her. She herself agreed as to its wisdom, and it was pitiful
were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One. They
or all objective?
       *       *       *       *       *
tight with strain that pull us different ways. Then tears come; and,
before he wakes. What mercy he shall get from us will not count for
some dread bell would peal out powerfully when we should least expect
horrible sort of snarl passed over his face, showing the eye-teeth long
movement, no pulse, no breath, no beating of the heart. I bent over him,


Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my

thing as lose her daughter body and soul; and we must not tell her, we
“Jack, is she really dead?”
observation all the same. All at once that shifty look came into his
hold of his hand to stop him. He only said: “You shall see,” and again

let her know anything about it, and we all tried not to show any
more. Jonathan coming in had not waked me, for he lay by my side when

“Your patient interests me much. May it be that with you I visit him
swarm over the place all at once, till the lamplight, shining on their
in him, encouraged him to talk. He is usually respectful to the
but over his face, as the awful narrative went on, came a grey look
which marks even lethargic sanity. As the face was exposed I could see

if it falls heavy it will stop us. In such case we must get a sledge and
and before the sunset this shall be so. Then he have no place where he
black darkness. The last conscious effort which imagination made was to
so, ‘First, a little refreshment to reward my exertions. You may as well
we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door. One
THE ANNEXATION SOCIETY

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

hall:--

There was a considerable pause, and then he said slowly:--
train we could see the front of the asylum. I looked eagerly, and in the
words on my typewriter, and none other need now hear your heart beat, as
stake. Not being able to smoke, he cut himself a good-sized plug of
       *       *       *       *       *
the sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek. Oh, friend John, it is
to Jonathan, my husband. The letter that he has seen and touched must
This to Jonathan Harker.
any hitherto--a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on all things
instructed to keep a sharp look-out for straying children, especially
present. You had better go your round, and Dr. Van Helsing will operate.
“Where are you?” The answer came in a neutral way:--
he has plenty of work to do, for that keeps his mind off the terrible

brightened, through its mutilation, and he said:--
sails--no time to be frightened. Men seem to have forgotten their dread.

“Oh yes! but that is all right; you needn’t worry about that!”
churchyard. Lucy is ever so much better. Last night she slept well all
He is cunning, as I know from Mr. Jonathan and from the way that all
passing; but we felt that it was useless to say anything. Suddenly she
lightning. I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of his

“We must,” said Van Helsing grimly. “If the door be locked, I shall


of them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of water, and
shock to her would mean sudden death, and this, in Lucy’s weak
wolves; the snow brings them down from the mountains, and there are

against the window, and Mr. Bilder’s face doubled its natural length
made me sleep for a long spell. At sunset time he hypnotised me, and he
just wait a minute till I tidy up the place.” His method of tidying was
horses always in readiness, for when we get the information which we
individually, would tend to show that whatever animal inflicts them has
suddenly grew pale and sat down in a chair almost fainting. “You are to

my going was concerned, for I said that I intended to stay and protect
and nearer, as though they were closing round on us from every side. I
it; we would then seek our way home as quickly as we could. All fell out

all probable the key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly.
and he!--I fear I am myself the only living soul within the place. Let
him to grow as to his brain; for it all prove to him how right he was at
am sure this diary would have been a mystery to him which he would not
he would surely go if the others went. He answered in growing passion,
ready to hand, for whilst we were speaking the howling of wolves came
Mina and I both felt so, and simultaneously we each took one of the old
is tumbling in over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar,
more light on what is happening.
This was continued for a few moments; then it softened into a glad
through the streets and over the bridge. A fish leaped as I went by, and
examine every hole and corner and cranny and see if we cannot get some

John Seward, M. D._
In a little while the Professor signalled to me, so I got up and joined
as in households is used in the coal-cellar for breaking the lumps. To
next day, when she saw I was troubled, she opened up the subject again,

have procured for me.” With an apology for my remissness, I went into my

his tea when I found him. Thomas and his wife are hospitable folk,
fresh horror of that ruddy vampire sleep.
just then came in, and he held up a warning hand. We must try to-night

which we must not desecrate needless.” This was a portion of Sacred

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

through the observation trap. He was sleeping soundly, and his heart
inaccessible though it was to me, as compared with the narrow darkness
_Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam._
them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range,
more.”
“Then what are you doing here?”
day to clear off; it was dark when I was able to inquire about my
trailing garments. All was in dead, grim silence only that the horses
we not promise to go on to the bitter end?”
placed the flowers amongst the others on and around the bed. Then he
the green grass, which seems like emerald amongst it; grey earthy rock;
is a new weakness, of which I must be careful. Jonathan would be
and lock myself up in my room and read it....
I answered that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of
“But go on. Go on! there is more to tell if you will. Be not afraid;
Doolittle’s Wharf for Varna, and thence on to other parts and up the
holding her face between her hands and sobbing in a way that was
think so at first, but I know better now. Therefore I am glad that it is
understand. I hope I did right in not saying anything of it to Mrs.
the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything, then turned the
streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
for sleep. It is coming.
Buda-Pesth, to Miss Wilhelmina Murray._
her.” The Professor has a strongly humorous side, and I could from old
foolish ideas would demoralise the men; said he would engage to keep
white and wan-looking than ever. Even the lips were white, and the gums

What shall I do? what can I do? How can I escape from this dreadful

guest, when a sweet-faced, dainty-looking girl stepped up to me, and,
his tea when I found him. Thomas and his wife are hospitable folk,
understand, but with the sternest look that his face could wear:--
Each in turn, we took his hand, and the promise was made. Then said the

he never can be sure; and that is the worst of all. And he will
the tears in his voice. Mr. Morris, with instinctive delicacy, just laid
moved as though there were some living thing within it. For answer he


journey. He goes over to Amsterdam to-night, but says he returns
_Memorandum left by Lucy Westenra._
through the streets and over the bridge. A fish leaped as I went by, and
“Well, he did look so good-humoured and so jolly that it didn’t seem
the blood clot; for it is evident that the hæmorrhage is increasing.”
“You were always a careful student, and your case-book was ever more
his soul for ever and ever to burning hell I would do it!”
CHAPTER XI
stair and along the dark passage to the old chapel. I knew now well

told us of their gloating lips; you heard their ribald laugh as they
roadway till we passed as through a tunnel; and again great frowning
and the servants there, one or two old friends of his from Exeter, his
on it may ultimately mislead us. If I thought that the Count’s power
with me. Stay with these friends who will watch over you!” Her
Arthur jumped to his feet.
Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys. Sometimes the
suddenly, and a quick blush overspread her face.
that horrid poison which has got into her veins beginning to work. The
Looking fixedly at her, he commenced to make passes in front of her,
“Take care you do not disturb it; and even if the room feel close, do
hear her poor dear heart still beating terribly. After a while there was
grey, but his mouth is set as firmly as a conqueror’s; even in his sleep
to cleave the gale and was then swept away in its rush.
was nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days,
to make a rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me antherums
the world, and what an awful thing if that man, that monster, be really

sufferer, forbids absolutely any travelling on my part for some time to
in Lucy’s breast, and which she had torn in her sleep.
cowered, aside and let him pass. In an instant he had jumped upon the
champed together like those of a wild beast. With a wrench, which threw
CHAPTER X. Mina Murray’s Journal
     catalog_
away, when, looking carefully from behind a clump of alder-trees, we saw

with intense gravity:--
her lips and cheeks and chin; from her throat trickled a thin stream of
When I came back he looked at me carefully, and then said:--
JONATHAN HARKER.
man’s when angry. He was laughing with his red mouth; the sharp white
it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! look!” he

into the thunderous one. I was now myself looking out for the conveyance
“Pardon me,” I said, with equal politeness, “but I have a special reason
crumble in to its native dust, as though the death that should have come

“A presage of horror! What on earth do you mean?”
call. When my brain says “Come!” to you, you shall cross land or sea to
time, after going to the far side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a
ship’s captain proved him of this; but, from what we know, the distance

raising the heavy boxes to the cart they would have made short work of
“God will act in His own way and time. Do not fear, and do not rejoice
he was examining. We all followed his movements with our eyes, for
“Oh, my friend, it is because I would save Madam Mina from that awful
Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormy

ajar, and found myself in an old, ruined chapel, which had evidently
She seemed like a nightmare of Lucy as she lay there; the pointed teeth,
now would be to take danger from her for ever. But then we may have to
out the letter to me, and with a courteous bow handed me a clean
“Perhaps I am!” he answered quietly as he began to make the wreath which
covered with great beads of perspiration. Mina opened her eyes; but she
bending over, she kissed his hand.
master,’ and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolical way.


from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort to move on without
alliance to the Stars and Stripes. The power of Treaty may yet prove a


symbol of the calm that was to reign for ever.
you.”
since been removed--as from Dr. Seward’s diary I fear.
room.
yew-tree. It puzzled me to think why he was doing this; but at the
temples sounded like blows from a hammer. The silence finally became
as any other transaction of life:--
came a quiet, resolute knock at the hall door. It was just an ordinary
record prepared by the Harkers; he seems to think that by accurate
I can promise that nothing will happen.”
can give them back to Him; but what will you give to me?” She looked
help feeling anxious about her all the same. What is it that’s wrong
from people in all walks of life.
       *       *       *       *       *
“Did you hit it?” asked Dr. Van Helsing.
earth, so sacred of holy memories, that he has brought from a far
“I am satisfied that Lucy’s body is not in that coffin; but that only
passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as
“Dr. Van Helsing, are you mad?” He raised his head and looked at me, and
books and figures, and of which there can be no doubt. I must not
He put on the coffin-lid again, gathered up all his things and placed
THE SAFETY PIN
knock, I got mad with him. He sneered at me, and his white face looked
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
haven’t heard from Jonathan for a whole month.
him on the typewriter, at which also I am practising very hard. He
before it there was no yawing. I dared not leave it, so shouted for the
waves and rushing water,” though she added that “the waves were very
to ourselves. But there remains a greater task: to find out the author
estate was situated; the other two were Exeter, and Whitby on the
leap back saved him. A second less and the trenchant blade had shorne
handed out and put in the calèche. Then I descended from the side of the
another of us:--
whom, owing to the terrible circumstance with which his sorrow was

openly. She wept, too, to see that her sweeter counsels had prevailed.
brought the clegs and the dowps to him. That’s the way he fell off the
       *       *       *       *       *
to struggle at the moment against the Count was useless. With such
Gazette,” of which I had made cuttings, helped us to understand the
which was to take me to the Count. Each moment I expected to see the
away, when, looking carefully from behind a clump of alder-trees, we saw
box, as of old, and is already examining the corners of his room to find
